# SmartGrid-Team-11
SmartGrid case for Algoritmen & Heuristieken from The Voltage Visionairs (Team11)

Many homes today have solar panels to produce their own energy. Fortunately, those installations often produce more than is needed for their own consumption. The surplus could be sold back to the supplier, but the infrastructure (the grid) is often not up to the task. To manage the peaks in consumption and production, batteries need to be installed. For this case different algorihms where tested to find the best solution and the lowest cost for three different neighbourhouds/districts. The lowest cost can be generated by laying as less cables as needed to connect the houses with the batteries. There are two cost calculations, one where every house has it's own cable and one where houses can share cables. The tested algorithms are; random, nearest, prim and simmulates annealing.

The random algorithm randomly shuffles the houses before assigning them to a battery and lays a cable between them when that battery has enough capacity left.

The nearest algorithm uses a priority queue to assign houses and finds the closest battery to the current house and assigns that house to the that battery.

The prim algorithm generates a minimum spanning trees of the batteries and their assigned houses.

The simulated annealing algorithm finds the lowest cost of the smart grid by randomly assigning houses to different batteries. The change is adopted when the cost is lower than the cost of the previous state. The state is optimized over many iterations.

<br/>To run:
<br/> python main.py (district) (amount of times) (algorithm) (type of cost calculation)
<br/> python main.py 1 1 random own

district:
- 1
- 2
- 3

amount of times:
- number of runs 

algorithms:
- random
- nearest
- prim
- sa (simulated annealing)

types of cost calculation:
- own
- shared

Results can be found in output.json
